[Music]
you guys have seen this before it's
called a Spiro works with this cool app
you drive it around and go off jumps
play games but believe it or not this
thing is more sophisticated than it
looks and today we're gonna test that
out I have teamed up with IBM for this
video and we are going to be using
Watson to take the Sphero to the next
level now many of you know I am a
Toronto Raptors fan and the Raptor is
actually used as Watson tech to do
player evaluations and make decisions
based on data so we're going to carry
forward with that basketball theme and
we're gonna play Watson basketball with
the Sphero the table as you can tell is
now a basketball court thankfully jack
is somewhat artistic in this little
sparrow is about to become a basketball
player how exciting is that through the
power of Watson the Watson API we've got
an application that means he's going to
interpret my commands as if I'm his
coach and then react like a player maybe
even experience what victory feels like
now obviously this is not what the
Toronto Raptors are doing actually I
don't know maybe they're having fun like
maybe this is exactly how they make
their decision probably not know they're
doing far more sophisticated stuff
crunching data they're using Watson
api's in order to determine sentiment
surrounding a particular player to look
at stats and crunch it all down so that
they can make better more informed
decisions so the various instructions
result in different behavior for the
Sphero for example certain instructions
will result in him changing color
whereas other ones will result in
certain actions let's get the game
started with of course an important
component in basketball to tip-off watch
this tip-off I got this let's get the
session early on you saw him turn green
you heard the response interpreted that
language games now started I need to
tell him to make a move on the fastbreak
let's try this out
fast break on it they won't know what
hit him
oh look at that moves right over to the
offensive zone okay so he's down over
here but what's the next move what about
defense you got to come back every so
often you're trying to be a two-way
player alright Spiro play some defense
please yes coach tracking back now oh oh
you see the way that happened right to
the rim was tracking the whole time you
got keep the shoulders in front that's a
tip for you kids out there eyes on the
chest
never mind the ball you don't want to
get crossed up alright Spiro the other
team sent the ball out of bounds so
please head down there and inbound it
for us turnover time to go on the attack
what bullying jumps straight out about
cool thing here is it's actually pretty
sophisticated so even if you don't
necessarily phrase things in an exact
way but there are keywords that are
picked up as reference points this
Bureau can still interpret what action
it is that you're looking for something
I want to mention at this point as well
is that this app is browser-based so
theoretically it could run on a laptop
tablet and iPad and iPhone I told you
how in professional cases like the
Toronto Raptors they could be some sort
of sentiment analysis tracking social
media in order to interpret what's being
said about a particular player ok Spiro
job well done you won the game it's time
to celebrate the victory waddles with
you as our coach
that's right coach Liu maybe I got a
future in this look at them dancing
around turning red and if the Watson API
is picking that up as sentiment off
social media Spiro is going to celebrate
so please you know send your tweets
hashtag victory so what you just
witnessed was three separate Watson
api's in action first speech-to-text
that's me speaking to the Spiro the
conversation API allows the application
to understand what I'm saying and then
respond the text-to-speech API actually
converts text from the app into speech
so then I can hear what the app has to
say rather than reading the screen
truthfully we're just scratching the
surface this stuff is used for all kinds
of different companies it's even used
for music recommendations if you want to
check it out for yourself there's a link
in the description go find out what you
can build